Hello English learners. Welcome to EnglishPod. My name is Marco and I'm Erica and today
we're back bringing you another great lesson and an intermediate lesson. That's right about
one of my favorite subjects. We're talking about food. Exactly. So on this occasion we're
going to be talking about food. So let's preview some words on vocabulary preview.
Very vocabulary preview. All right we have three words for you today and the first word is
head chef. Head chef. Head chef. So what is a head chef? Well in a professional kitchen
this is the boss of the kitchen or the leader of the kitchen. Okay so the head chef is the
the main cook. Yes but he doesn't cook. But he doesn't cook. Okay all right so if he doesn't cook
who's the one that does the cooking? That brings us to our second word. Sushchef. Sushchef. S-O-U-S. So the S is
silent because it's like a French word. Yeah something like that. Okay so the Sushchef is the second
in line to the head. Yeah he's the number two. Number two. So he's basically the one that's doing
some of the work in the kitchen. Now let's take a look at our last word cuisine. cuisine. cuisine.
So this is an interesting word. What exactly does it mean? Well it basically means cooking right?
Okay like the art of cooking. So for example I can say French food. Yeah or French cuisine.
French cuisine which includes all the food. Yeah and this is also the major that people study
in college to become a chef. Yep. You study cuisine. And cuisine is a noun right? It's a noun. Okay
so I think we're ready to dive into our dialogue. What exactly is going on? Well we're in a restaurant.
And it's a really busy night. And so we're going to listen to what is happening in the kitchen.
That's a way, sure. Your order will be ready shortly. Jean-Pierre, we have another special for table
service. I'm working as fast as I can. We're willing the weeds. Where is my Sushchef? Look I need
you to peel more potatoes. Marie. Chop some onions and carrots for the stew.
I don't know what this is. Oh my God. I see some of that.
Jean-Pierre, another special. We're really packed tonight. We're running low on wine.
There's already left in the salon. Sorry I'm late everyone. Wow we're really doing well tonight.
Hi, I'm Dr. King and get a very young. I need some so steered and the fish needs to be
but chilled and bitter. Okay, how about it? Jean-Pierre, table saffron has requested to see the chef.
I think there are food critics from cuisine magazine.
Okay so a busy night here at this restaurant. I know it sounds like there's a lot of pressure on this
chef. Yeah, you can tell in his voice that he's really stressed out. Yeah, okay let's take a look at
some of this kitchen vocabulary that we found in language takeaway. Language takeaway.
All right well we've got five words for use today. In the first one is peel peel peel peel
peel. Peel. Peel. So this is a verb and it means to remove the outside skin. Okay so for
example when you're going to eat a banana you must peel it first. You must peel it. You got to take away the yellow skin.
What else do you peel oranges, potatoes, potatoes like in the dialogue? What else can you peel? I don't know carrots.
Carrots. Some people peel their tomatoes. I don't know why. Yeah it is kind of weird. All right now let's
take a look at our next word chop chop chop chop chop chop. So again another verb and it means to
it means to cut food into pieces. So if you're going to eat carrots first you got to chop them. Exactly.
Right you can put a whole carrot in your suit and your suit in your rice. Yeah. Okay chop. Okay our next
word stirred. Yeah this is the past participle of the word stir. Okay so the verb stir stir.
So when you stir something imagine you have a big pot and you've got a long spoon
you move the spoon around in circles. Okay. So you're stirring the pot. You're mixing.
To stir is very similar to mix. Yes. Okay. So you just move the food around. Move the food around.
Yeah. Okay our next word butchered. Again the past participle of the verb butcher. Okay butchered.
Butchered. Now this a verb to butcher something. It's when you remove all the bones and all the
organs from the meat. Exactly. So you cut up the meat. And this is interesting because it's also
a noun. Right a butcher is a person who cuts up meat. Okay so so it's really easy. A butcher butcher's meat.
All right our last word butter. Butter. Butter. Butter. Butter. Okay so butter. This is weird.
I know normally we all know the noun butter but here it's acting as a verb. Okay. So when you butter
something you spread or put butter on it. Okay so to put butter on something so you can butter a piece of bread.
Exactly. Or in this case the fish is being buttered. Mm-hmm sounds delicious. Okay now we're
ready to listen to our dialogue for the second time. We're gonna slow it down a little bit so it's
easier to understand. Right away sure your order will be ready shortly. Jump here. We have another
special for table seven. I'm working as fast as I can. We are really in the weeds. Where is my
sous chef? Look I need you to peel more potatoes. Marie. Chop some onions and carrots for this too.
Jump here on all special. We're really packed tonight. We're running raw on wine. Is there
only left in the salad? Whoa sorry I'm late everyone. Wow we are really doing well tonight.
Marie, stop talking and come over here. I need the sauce to order and the fish needs to be
butchered and buttered. Okay I'm on it. Jump here. Table seven has requested to see the chef.
I think they are food critics from cuisine market trade. Okay so that seems to be a little bit
better. Mm-hmm and hey I noticed that there's a lot of really great kitchen words and here are like
words that you commonly hear in a professional kitchen. Okay so let's take a look at these kitchen
words in fluency builder fluency builder. All right we've got three phrases and the first one is
in the weeds in the weeds in the weeds in the weeds. So when you're in the weeds you're so so busy
and you can't do all the work you need to do on time. Okay so in the weeds it means that you're
really busy. Yes. And you can't finish everything. And you can't you have too much to do. Yeah.
Okay in the weeds. Okay our next word running low on. Running low on. Running low on.
Running low on. Okay so before we get into explaining what running low on means let's listen to some
examples. Example one. You better look for a gas station we're running low on fuel.
Example two. We're running low on beers can you go out and get some. Example three.
My flashlight is running low on battery hurry up before it gets dark.
So basically running low means you don't have much of this left. You don't have much of something left.
So here they're running low on wine. So basically there's not much wine left. Right. So as we
heard in the examples you could also be running low on fuel. For example in your car,
etc. Running low on. All right and now let's take a look at our last word doing really well.
Doing really well. We are doing really well. Doing really well. So this seems to be like a pretty
simple structure. I mean we know all these words, right? So why is it special? Well basically
if you say I am doing really well, maybe it sounds a little bit difficult to understand. What are you
doing really well? So this is a great way of answering a question when somebody says how are you or
how are you doing? You can say, oh I'm doing really well. Or I'm doing well. In your life,
everything is good. And your life things are good and you're happy basically. But in this situation
in the dialogue, what's doing really well? Well the restaurant is doing really well. The business
is doing really well. So when he says we're doing really well, business is good. Good. They're making
lots of money. Exactly. So you can use it with people. You can use it with businesses. You can say,
oh I'm doing really well in my new job. Or my son is doing really well in school. Yep. Okay so
you can use it in those different ways. All right well let's listen to the dialogue one last time
and we'll be able to hear all of these great words and phrases we just talked about.
Gosh oh wait sure, your order will be ready shortly. Jean Pierre, we have another special
for table saver. I'm working as fast as I can. We're willing to read. Where is my spaceship?
Look, I need you to build more potatoes, marie, chop some onions and carrots for the stew.
What is it about? What is it about? What is it about?
Jean Pierre, another special. We're really patched tonight. We're running low on wine.
Is there any left in the cello? Sorry I'm late everyone. We're really doing well tonight.
Hi, I'm Dr. King and get a very young. I need some sushi other and the fish needs to be
but chilled and buttered. Okay, how about it? Jean Pierre, table saver has requested to see the chef.
I think there are food critics from Quercine Magazine.
So Marco, do you think this chef had a rat under his hat? That was a really good movie.
Yeah, I had a two-y that Disney Pixar where a rat is a cook. Yes, it's interesting. I love to cook
but I'm not very good at cooking. Really? But it's good because for me it helps me relieve stress.
Me too actually. You know if I'm in a bad mood I go home and cook something to eat
the world seems a happier place. And people don't understand it because they think cooking is work.
Yeah. But you know for some people it's fun. Yeah. So what about you guys? What do you like to cook? Do you have
any particular dish that you prepare very well? And if you do please send us the rest of it. Exactly because
we know that we have listeners from all over the world and of course we want to know what type of food
you prefer. So come to EnglishPod.com and post your questions your comments and your recipes
in our community section and Erica and I will always be there. Yes, to test out your recipes as well
and answer questions. For sure if a good recipe comes along we'll prepare it and we'll let you know how it
turned out. Yeah. All right guys we're out of time but we'll see you next time. Until then goodbye.